at YouTube Travis here welcome one
forerunner so here it is here's my
new-to-me 1989 Toyota 4runner
so it's no secret that I'm a sucker for
these old Toyota's I know those of you
like to follow my cars as well as my
mopeds I remember that video I made
about my Camry well I ended up selling
that and paying up pretty much basically
everything I owed my parents which was a
pretty good feeling so that meant for a
while my daily driver was my winter
beater yep for a while I was daily in
the 1985 Toyota Landcruiser
FJ 60 man that was a very exciting part
of my life but I drove that to the
inspection ran out and I sold it and I
actually went for a while without any
kind of car I just ripped mopeds and
rode bicycles and that was all good but
I missed being able to get out of town
whenever I wanted to so I finally found
this on Craigslist for $500 and I'll go
a little bit into you know what the
situation is why I paid so little for it
and what it needs but this has been
serving me well for the past six months
I'm sorry I'm just getting out of making
a video of it now but I really really
like this truck I think I'm going to
keep this one for the long haul let's
take a closer look I think what I like
most about this truck is simplicity
crank windows no air conditioning some
was so based models that even came in
the factory without a tachometer I went
ahead and put on while these little Sun
pro-tax you can get at Advance Auto so
I'd like to be able to see what revs I'm
running at more importantly because with
this one so this is the 5-speed manual
four wheel drive four cylinder which is
in my opinion the most desirable of them
all anyway I put this Pioneer stereo in
here this is just like the $60 cheapest
one you can get all I wanted is a place
where I could plug in my phone new
speakers they got little four inches up
front and then I fitted five and a
quarters in the rear has the option for
air conditioning of course it does not
work and of course it is r12 that's okay
you saw earlier we've got 2:19 on the
clock I put about 2,000 miles on since
I've owned it mostly trouble-free I'll
explain one major thing that I had done
to it here in just a second okay we'll
go
and fire it up key us to on once again
this has one of those really funky
clutch cancel buttons so you can push
that and if we put her in neutral which
is you can start it without your foot on
the clutch cool let's pop the hood and
take a look so there she is the 22 r-e
fuel-injected version of the same 22 are
the so called bulletproof four-cylinder
Toyota made for years I really like this
motor and honestly
it doesn't even with the miles it has it
doesn't eat any oil or leak any coolant
it holds everything pretty well with the
exception of the clutch fluid right
there I have the same problem in my
Camry as probably one of the master
cylinder or something like that but
that'll all come in time some things
have transitioned over from the
landcruiser you're still back here it's
like he fell over so I wanted the truck
but I want something that I could put
all my friends and seats in the back but
yet this is pretty much the exact same
body style of the old Toyota pickup with
a removable cab I haven't had the
courage to remove this cap because the
Rosalia weighs 200 pounds and it's a
pain and I don't have a garage right now
so I've worried about it getting rained
on there is one power window in this
vehicle and that is the rear window and
mine actually works I lucked out big
time there I'm pretty happy about that
a little homage Toy Story right there
you can point that out but the story on
this truck actually bought it from the
original owner believe it or not he had
bought it it was an Arizona truck for
the first 10 or so years of its life
which is why it hasn't completely rusted
away but I've definitely been fighting
some rust I am no body man
I will admit this looks pretty bad I had
two days to get it through inspection so
sanded down what I could and then I did
the bondo fiberglass get the rest
eventually in time I'm hoping to source
some fenders a junkyard that aren't like
that and then eventually down the road
see what I can do for the quarters but
luckily the rockers and the body
underneath a pretty solid I'm not going
to worry about them for a while the
tires on them have good tread and
all-in-all it was 500 bucks for
something that I can walk away with that
day and drive now the big Achilles heel
of this engine there's some other
YouTube videos about this that are
really great is that if you're not up on
the maintenance it gets the point where
if your timing chain starts rubbing
through your timing chain guides which
are made of plastic and they're made for
plastic for a reason people like to rant
about that first the plastic has to be
the fail point for the chain anyway the
chain will wear through the guide and
then it'll start whirring through the
timing cover and then it can puncture a
water jacket and then you've got
well when I bought it
the reason was $500 even though in my
opinion sin quite good shape the motor
says all the engines got it now I said
you know what I think I know what that
might be and I took the chance and I
pulled the valve cover and I'll show you
some pictures here sure enough that
driver's side timing chain guide was
loose as all get-out so I had my trusted
mechanic do the timing chain and guides
and tensioner and all that jazz and it
runs a lot better now
and I feel really confident about it the
other thing is that well the clutch is
good and it goes through all the gears
and it doesn't doesn't slip or anything
like that fifth gear is pretty much
turned into another neutral
unfortunately so I'm gonna have to look
into getting transmission rebuilds or
maybe just the fifth gear redone I have
a theory that fluid leaked out in fifth
gear is the highest from the top so that
was able to eat itself to bits first but
we'll see but all in all even with the
4-speed doing 65 miles an hour down the
highway only register three grand which
I know is an ideal but it's good enough
for now so I love these friends calling
windows but angle them so you just have
air coming straight into your face I
really don't even need the air
conditioning though
so yeah while it's not exactly something
that I'm going to be beating on it is
really fun to be up nice driving a truck
and having something that's four
cylinder so it's me a little bit better
fuel economy and I put called many a
moped in the back of that and they fit
pretty well back there so alright
YouTube well I end up doing anything
extreme with this or if I ever decide to
go romp around the woods I'll see if I
can get some footage but this is my
daily driver right now alright until
next time YouTube